Add declarativeNetRequest (#22644)
mdn/content: files/en-us/mozilla/add-ons/webextensions/api/declarativenetrequest/ruleaction/index.md

---
title: declarativeNetRequest.RuleAction
slug: Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/declarativeNetRequest/RuleAction
tags:
  - API
  - Add-ons
  - Extensions
  - Reference
  - WebExtensions
  - Type
  - declarativeNetRequest
  - RuleAction
browser-compat: webextensions.api.declarativeNetRequest.RuleAction
---

{{AddonSidebar()}}

Details of the action to take if a rule is matched.

## Type

Values of this type are objects. They contain these properties:

- `redirect` {{optional_inline}}
  - : {{WebExtAPIRef("declarativeNetRequest.Redirect")}}. Describes how the redirect should be performed. Only valid for redirect rules.
- `requestHeaders` {{optional_inline}}
  - : {{WebExtAPIRef("declarativeNetRequest.ModifyHeaderInfo")}}. The request headers to modify for the request. Only valid if `RuleActionType` is `"modifyHeaders"`.
- `redirect` {{optional_inline}}
  - : {{WebExtAPIRef("declarativeNetRequest.ModifyHeaderInfo")}}. The response headers to modify for the request. Only valid if `RuleActionType` is `"modifyHeaders"`.
- `type` {{optional_inline}}

>   - : A `string`. The type of action to perform. Possible values are `"block"`, `"redirect"`, `"allow"`, `"upgradeScheme"`, `"modifyHeaders"`, and `"allowAllRequests"`.

Author: ```suggestion
  - : A `string`. The type of action to perform. Possible values are `"block"`, `"redirect"`, `"allow"`, `"upgradeScheme"`, `"modifyHeaders"`, and `"allowAllRequests"`.  The use of the `"redirect"` and `"modifyHeaders"` actions require [host permissions](/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/manifest.json/permissions#host_permissions) for the request and request initiator. The "block" and "upgradeScheme" actions also require host permissions unless the "declarativeNetRequest" permission is specified. Without these permissions, matching rules are ignored. See [Permissions at declarativeNetRequest](/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/declarativeNetRequest#permissions). for more information.
```

---
title: declarativeNetRequest.RuleAction
slug: Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/declarativeNetRequest/RuleAction
tags:
  - API
  - Add-ons
  - Extensions
  - Reference
  - WebExtensions
  - Type
  - declarativeNetRequest
  - RuleAction
browser-compat: 
  - webextensions.api.declarativeNetRequest.RuleAction
  - webextensions.api.declarativeNetRequest.ModifyHeaderInfo
---

{{AddonSidebar()}}

Details of the action to take if a rule is matched.

## Type

Values of this type are objects. They contain these properties:

- `redirect` {{optional_inline}}
  - : {{WebExtAPIRef("declarativeNetRequest.Redirect")}}. Describes how the redirect should be performed. Only valid for redirect rules.

> - `requestHeaders` {{optional_inline}}
>   - : {{WebExtAPIRef("declarativeNetRequest.ModifyHeaderInfo")}}. The request headers to modify for the request. Only valid if `RuleActionType` is `"modifyHeaders"`.
> - `redirect` {{optional_inline}}
>   - : {{WebExtAPIRef("declarativeNetRequest.ModifyHeaderInfo")}}. The response headers to modify for the request. Only valid if `RuleActionType` is `"modifyHeaders"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `requestHeaders` {{optional_inline}}
  - : {{WebExtAPIRef("declarativeNetRequest.ModifyHeaderInfo")}}. The request headers to modify for the request. Only valid if the action `type` is `"modifyHeaders"`.
- `redirect` {{optional_inline}}
  - : {{WebExtAPIRef("declarativeNetRequest.ModifyHeaderInfo")}}. The response headers to modify for the request. Only valid if the action `type` is `"modifyHeaders"`.
```
